you
and he commanded the steward of his
house fill the men's sacks with food as
much as they can carry and put each
man's money in the mouths of his sack
also put my cup the silver cup in the
mouth of the sack of the youngest and
his grain money so he did according to
the word that Joseph had spoken as soon
as the morning dawned the men was sent
away they and their donkeys when they
had gone out of the city and were not
yet far off Joseph said to his steward
get up follow the men and when you
overtake them say to them why have you
repaid evil for good is not this the one
from which my lord drinks and with which
he indeed practices divination you have
done evil in so doing so he overtook
them and he spoke to them these same
words they said to him why does my lord
say these words far be it from us that
your servants should do such a thing
look we brought back to you from the
land of Canaan the money which we found
in the mouth of our sacks how then could
we steal silver or gold from your Lord's
house with whom ever of your servants it
is found let him die and we also will be
my Lords slaves no also let it be
according to your words be with whom it
has found shall be my slave and you
shall be blameless and each man speedily
let down his sack to the ground a beach
opened his sack so he searched he began
with the oldest and left off the
youngest
Harbor cup was found in Benjamin's sack
then they tore their clothes and each
fan loaded his donkey and returned to
the city so Judah and his brothers came
to Joseph's house and he was still there
and they fell before him on the ground
Joseph said to them what deed is this
you have done did you not know that such
a man as I can certainly practice
divination then Judah said what shall we
say to my Lord what shall we speak or
how shall we clear ourselves God has
found out the iniquity of your servants
here we are my lord slaves both we and
he also with whom the cup was found far
be it from me that I should do so the
man in whose hand the cup was found he
shall be my slave and as for you go up
in peace to your father then Judah came
near to him oh my lord
please let your servant speak a word in
my Lords hearing and do not let your
anger burn against your servant for you
are even like Pharaoh my Lord asked his
servants saying have you a father or a
brother and we said to my lord we have a
father an old man and a child of his old
age who is young his brother is dead and
he alone is left of his mother's
children and his father loves him then
you said to your servants bring him down
to me that I may set my eyes on him and
we said to my lord the lad cannot leave
his father for if he should leave his
father his father would die but you said
to your servants unless your youngest
brother comes down with you you shall
see my face no more
it was when we went up to your servant
my father that we told him the words of
my lord and our father said go back and
buy us a little food but we said we
cannot go down if our youngest brother
is with us then we will go down for we
may not see the man's face unless our
youngest brother is with us then your
servant my father said to us you know
that my wife bore me two sons when the
one went out from me and I said surely
he is torn to pieces and I have not seen
him since but if you take this one also
from me and calamity befalls him you
shall bring down my grey hair with
sorrow the grave
now therefore when I come to your
servant my father and the lad is not
with us since his life is bound up in
the lads life it will happen when he
sees that the lad is not with us that he
will die so your servants will bring
down the gray hair of your servant our
Father with sorrow to the grave for your
servant became surety for the lad to my
father saying if I do not bring him back
to you
then I shall bear the blame before my
father forever now therefore please let
your servant remain instead of the lad
as a slave to my lord and let the lad go
up with his brothers for how shall I go
up to my father if the lad is not with
me lest perhaps I see the evil that
would come upon my father